TO THE MOST HIGH AND MIGHTY PRINCE
JAMES,
BY THE GRACE OF GOD,
KING OF GREAT BRITAIN, FRANCE, AND IRELAND,
DEFENDER OF THE FAITH, &c.

The Translators of the Bible wish Grace, Mercy, and Peace,
through JESUS CHRIST our Lord.

GREAT and manifold were the blessings, most dread Sovereign, which Almighty 
God, the Father of all mercies, bestowed upon us the people of England, when 
first he sent Your Majesty's Royal Person to rule and reign over us. For 
whereas it was the expectation of many, who wished not well unto our Sion, that 
upon the setting of that bright Occidental Star, Queen Elizabeth of most happy 
memory, some thick and palpable clouds of darkness would so have overshadowed 
this Land, that men should have been in doubt which way they were to walk; and 
that it should hardly be known, who was to direct the unsettled State; the 
appearance of Your Majesty, as of the Sun in his strength, instantly dispelled 
those supposed and surmised mists, and gave unto all that were well affected 
exceeding cause of comfort; especially when we beheld the Government 
established in Your Highness and Your hopeful Seed, by an undoubted Title, and 
this also accompanied with peace and tranquility at home and abroad.

But among all our joys, there was no one that more filled our hearts, than the 
blessed continuance of the preaching of God's sacred Word among us; which is 
that inestimable treasure, which excelleth all the riches of earth; because the 
fruit thereof extendeth itself, not only to the time spent in this transitory 
world, but directeth and disposeth men unto that eternal happiness which is 
above in heaven.

Then not to suffer this to fall to the ground, but rather to take it up, and to 
continue it in that state, wherein the famous Predecessor of Your Highness did 
leave it: nay, to go forward with the confidence and resolution of a Man in 
maintaining the truth of Christ, and propagating it far and near, is that which 
hath so bound and firmly knit the hearts of all Your Majesty's loyal and 
religious people unto You, that Your very name is precious among them: their 
eye doth behold You with comfort, and they bless You in their hearts, as that 
sanctified Person, who, under God, is the immediate Author of their true 
happiness. And this their contentment doth not diminish or decay, but every day 
increaseth and taketh strength, when they observe, that the zeal of Your 
Majesty toward the house of God doth not slack or go backward, but is more and 
more kindled, manifesting itself abroad in the farthest parts of Christendom, 
by writing in defence of the Truth, (which hath given such a blow unto that man 
of Sin, as will not be healed,) and every day at home, by religious and learned 
discourse, by frequenting the house of God, by hearing the Word preached, by 
cherishing the Teachers thereof, by caring for the Church, as a most tender and 
loving nursing Father.

There are infinite arguments of this right Christian and religious affection in 
Your Majesty; but none is more forcible to declare it to others than the 
vehement and perpetuated desire of accomplishing and publishing of this work, 
which now with all humility we present unto Your Majesty. For when Your 
Highness had once out of deep judgment apprehended how convenient it was, that 
out of the Original Sacred Tongues, together with comparing of the labours, 
both in our own, and other foreign Languages, of many worthy men who went 
before us, there should be one more exact Translation of the holy Scriptures 
into the English Tongue; Your Majesty did never desist to urge and to excite 
those to whom it was commended, that the work might be hastened, and that the 
business might be expedited in so decent a manner, as a matter of such 
importance might justly require.

And now at last, by the mercy of God, and the continuance of our labours, it 
being brought unto such a conclusion, as that we have great hopes that the 
Church of England shall reap good fruit thereby; we hold it our duty to offer 
it to Your Majesty, not only as to our King and Sovereign, but as to the 
principal Mover and Author of the work: humbly craving of Your most Sacred 
Majesty, that since things of this quality have ever been subject to the 
censures of illmeaning and discontented persons, it may receive approbation and 
patronage from so learned and judicious a Prince as Your Highness is, whose 
allowance and acceptance of our labours shall more honour and encourage us, 
than all the calumniations and hard interpretations of other men shall dismay 
us. So that if, on the one side, we shall be traduced by Popish Persons at home 
or abroad, who therefore will malign us, because we are poor instruments to 
make God's holy Truth to be yet more and more known unto the people, whom they 
desire still to keep in ignorance and darkness; or if, on the other side, we 
shall be maligned by selfconceited Brethren, who run their own ways, and give 
liking unto nothing, but what is framed by themselves, and hammered on their 
anvil; we may rest secure, supported within by the truth and innocency of a 
good conscience, having walked the ways of simplicity and integrity, as before 
the Lord; and sustained without by the powerful protection of Your Majesty's 
grace and favour, which will ever give countenance to honest and Christian 
endeavors against bitter censures and uncharitable imputations.

The Lord of heaven and earth bless Your Majesty with many and happy days, that, 
as his heavenly hand hath enriched Your Highness with many singular and 
extraordinary graces, so You may be the wonder of the world in this latter age 
for happiness and true felicity, to the honour of that great GOD, and the good 
of his Church, through Jesus Christ our Lord and only Saviour.
